---
layout: post
title:  "Best books of 2014"
date:   2014-12-10 12:40:00
categories: books
---

Yesterday, Bill Gates shared his list of [best books of 2014](http://www.gatesnotes.com/About-Bill-Gates/Best-Books-2014), which stimulated me to think about the best books I read this year. Unfortunately, recent fatherhood has kept me away from a lot of books I planned to read this year, but I did manage to squeeze in a couple of very interesting ones. These are my 5-star books from 2014:

- __The boys in the Boat__ (Daniel James Brown): very powerful narrative about the 1936 US Olympic rowing team, a collection of working-class boys from the state of Washington that conquering the world.
- __Countdown to zero day__ (Kim Zetter): The thrilling tale of the the Stuxnet virus, the first (known) cyberwarfare weapon that took down an Iranian nuclear plant. It also explains why we should be much more vigilant securing our public utilities.
- __Cool Gray City of Love__ (Gary Kamiya): An extremely engaging book about San Francisco's short but exciting history. In 49 short stories the author visits places in and around SF to tell their history.
- __Zero to One__: About technological advance, entrepeneurship, and how the world works in general. Peter Thiel's book transcends most other books written by Silicon Valley VCs (like __The Hard Thing about Hard Things__ from Ben Horowitz, also released this year and an interesting read) due to its more philosophic nature. The book is short, so I'm planning to re-read it a few times over the next few years.

## Disappointments

This year I was looking forward a lot to the release of __the Bone Clocks__, the new book by David Mitchell (author of Cloud Atlas). I'm sad to say it disappointed me a lot. Althought the narrative and dialogue was strong as ever, the story really fell apart from me somewhere in Chapter 5 where it just got lost in holistic science-fiction mumbo-jumbo.

A book by another favorite authors disappointed me too: __the Circle__, by David Eggers is written around a very relevant theme and promised to be the __1984__ of our generation. Although it did stir up much-needed discussions about online privacy, I think it stretched beyond belief Silicon Valley's tendency to disregard privacy and glorify technological advance. Not a bad read overall, but over-the-top.

Please drop any suggestions you have in the comments below!
